From the FNP Workshop Series:

The volume of available financial information is increasing sharply and therefore the study of NLP methods that automatically summarise content has grown rapidly into a major research area.

Financial Narrative Summarisation aims to demonstrate the value and challenges of applying automatic text summarisation to financial text written in English, usually referred to as financial narrative disclosures.

The model has been trained on real-world, publicly available financial annual reports of UK firms by extracting information from different key sections. The objective is to generate summaries that reflects the analysis and assessment of the financial trend of the business over the past year, as provided by annual reports.

In the UK and elsewhere, annual report structure is much less rigid than those produced in the US. Companies produce glossy brochures with a much looser structure, and this makes automatic summarisation of narratives in UK annual reports a challenging task. This is due to the fact that the structure of those documents needs to be extracted first in order to summarise the narrative sections of the annual reports. This can happen by detecting narrative sections that usually include the management disclosures rather than the financial statements of the annual reports.

The summary requires extraction from different key sections found in the annual reports. Those sections are usually referred to as “narrative sections” or “front-end” sections and they usually contain textual information and reviews by the firm’s management and board of directors. Sections containing financial statements in terms of tables and numbers are usually referred to as “back-end” sections and are not supposed to be part of the narrative summaries. UK annual reports are lengthy documents with around 80 pages on average, some annual reports could span over more than 250 pages, making the summarisation task a challenging but an academically interesting one.